<a href="README_portuguese.md" target="_blank">Leia esta página em português</a>
# Animal Adoption Platform 🐾

Welcome to the Animal Adoption Platform, where we connect adorable animals with loving homes. This project aims to simplify and facilitate the adoption process, promoting responsibility and compassion towards animals.

## Key Features

1. **NGO (Non-Governmental Organization) Registration**
   - Register your NGO and help create profiles for animals available for adoption.

2. **Search for Animals for Adoption**
   - Explore the list of animals available for adoption.
   - Filter by species, breed, and other criteria to find the perfect companion.

3. **Adoption Requests**
   - Allow potential adopters to submit requests to adopt a specific animal.

4. **Adoption Management**
   - Accept, undo, or reject adoption requests to ensure the well-being of the animals.

## Documentation

Explore our [Documentation](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/32475615/2s9YypDNMk) for details on routes, authentication, NGOs, animals, and more. Discover how to integrate and use our platform!

## Trello Board Tracking 📊

Track our progress and contribute to development through our [Trello Board](https://trello.com/b/fRxmXbu5/plataforma-de-ado%C3%A7%C3%A3o-de-animais). We use the Kanban methodology to organize tasks, implementations, and improvements. Be part of the process!

## Database Modeling 🗂️

Explore the database model for the Animal Adoption Platform to understand how data is structured within the system. The model provides insights into the relationships between different entities, facilitating a comprehensive view of the platform's data organization.

**[Database Model](https://github.com/allan-bismarck/backend-pet-adopt/blob/main/modelagem_banco_de_dados/Diagrama%20plataforma%20de%20ado%C3%A7%C3%A3o%20de%20animais%20(1).jpg)**

## How to Contribute 🤝

Thank you for considering contributing to the Animal Adoption Platform! Your help is crucial to making our platform even better. Follow the steps below to get started:

1. **Fork the Repository**
   - Fork the [main repository](https://github.com/allan-bismarck/backend-pet-adopt.git).

2. **Clone the Forked Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/allan-bismarck/backend-pet-adopt.git
   cd backend-pet-adopt
   ```

3. **Environment Configuration**
   - Make sure you have Docker installed on your machine.
   - Create a file at the root of the project called `.env.key` and add the following line:
     ```
     JWT_SECRET=your_security_key
     ```
     (Replace `your_security_key` with a security key generated by an online key generator. Feel free to choose the size of your key.)

4. **Run the Project**
   - Run the following command to start the project:
     ```bash
     docker compose up
     ```
     This will start the server and the database.

5. **Local Access**
   - Access the platform locally at [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

6. **Contribute**
   - Make the desired changes, create new features, or resolve existing issues.

7. **Submit Changes**
   - Commit your changes and submit a pull request to the main repository.

Remember to follow best practices for development and documentation. We appreciate your contribution! 🚀
